Added TOC to settings reference page (#7578)
plone/volto: docs/source/configuration/settings-reference.md

## Main settings

They are exposed in `config.settings`.

### navDepth

> Navigation levels depth used in the navigation endpoint calls. Increasing this is useful for implementing fat navigation menus. Defaults to `1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`navDepth` is the navigation levels depth used in the navigation endpoint calls.
Increasing this is useful for implementing fat navigation menus.
Defaults to `1`.
```

### defaultBlockType

> The name of the default block type used when a new block is added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`defaultBlockType` is the name of the default block type used when a new block is added.
```

The default value of this setting is `slate`, which uses the current Slate-based implementation for the rich text editor.
If you change this to a different type of block, make sure the block configuration includes the {ref}`blockHasValue` function.

### sentryOptions

> In Volto 16.0.0.alpha.45, Sentry integration was moved from core to the add-on [`@plone-collective/volto-sentry`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@plone-collective/volto-sentry).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Volto 16.0.0.alpha.45, Sentry integration via `sentryOptions` was moved from core to the add-on [`@plone-collective/volto-sentry`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@plone-collective/volto-sentry).
```

```{seealso}
See {doc}`../deploying/sentry`.
```

### contentIcons

> With this property you can configure Content Types icons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `contentIcons` property configures content types icons.
```

  }
};
```

### bbb_getContentFetchesFullobjects

Before Volto 10, the main content-grabbing request, triggered as a result of
`getContent` action, always used the `fullobjects` flag, which fully serialized
the immediate children of the context request. If your code depends on this
behavior, set this flag to `true` in the `settings` object.

```{note}
You should probably refactor your code to avoid depending on this
behavior. It can cause performance issues when you have large children
(for example content with lots of text) and you need to batch requests
anyway, if you want to be sure to display all the children.
```

### persistentReducers

A list of reducer names that should use the browser's localstorage to
persist their data.

### maxResponseSize

The library that we use to get files and images from the backend (superagent)
has a response size limit of 200 mb, so if you want to get a file bigger than 200 mb
from Plone, the {term}`SSR` will throw an error.

You can edit this limit in the `settings` object setting a new value in bytes
(for example, to set 500 mb you need to write 5000000000).

### maxFileUploadSize

The maximum allowed size of file uploads (in bytes).

> Default: `null` (no limit enforced by Volto).

Reviewer: ````suggestion
### `bbb_getContentFetchesFullobjects`

Before Volto 10, the main content-grabbing request, triggered as a result of `getContent` action, always used the `fullobjects` flag, which fully serialized the immediate children of the context request.
If your code depends on this behavior, set the `bbb_getContentFetchesFullobjects` flag to `true` in the `settings` object.

```{note}
You should probably refactor your code to avoid depending on this behavior.
It can cause performance issues when you have large children, for example, content with lots of text, and you need to batch requests anyway, if you want to be sure to display all the children.
```

### `persistentReducers`

`persistentReducers` is a list of reducer names that should use the browser's local storage to persist their data.

### `maxResponseSize`

The library that Volto uses to get files and images from the backend called superagent has a response size limit of 200Mb.
If you want to get a file bigger than 200Mb from Plone, the {term}`SSR` will throw an error.

You can edit this limit in the `settings` object setting a new value for `maxResponseSize` in bytes.
For example, to set 500Mb, write `5000000000`.

### `maxFileUploadSize`

`maxFileUploadSize` is the maximum allowed size of file uploads in bytes.
The default is `null`, meaning no limit is enforced by Volto.
````

### initialReducersBlacklist

The initial state passed from server to browser needs to be minimal in order to optimize the resultant html generated. This state gets stored in `window.__data` and received in client.

> You can blacklist a few reducers that you don't want to be part of `window.__data`, thus decreasing the initial html size for performance gains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can blacklist a few reducers that you don't want to be part of `window.__data`, thus decreasing the initial HTML size for performance gains by setting `initialReducersBlacklist`.
```

```js
import * as config from '@plone/volto/config';

export const settings = {
  ...config.settings,
  initialReducersBlacklist: [
    ...config.settings.initialReducersBlacklist,
    'yourReducer',
  ]
};
```

### loadables

A mapping of loadable libraries that can be injected into components using
the `injectLazyLibs` HOC wrapper. See the [Lazy
loading](../development/lazyload) page for more details.

### lazyBundles

A mapping of bundles to list of lazy library names. Create new bundles (or
change the already provided `cms` bundle to be able to preload multiple
lazy libraries (with `preloadLazyLibs`) or quickly load them with
`injectLazyLibs`.

### storeExtenders

A list of callables with signature `(middlewaresList) => middlewaresList`.
These callables receive the whole stack of middlewares used in Volto and
they can add new middleware or tweak this list.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `loadables`

`loadables` is a mapping of loadable libraries that can be injected into components using the `injectLazyLibs` HOC wrapper.
See the {doc}`../development/lazyload` page for more details.

### `lazyBundles`

`lazyBundles` is a mapping of bundles to a list of lazy library names.
Create new bundles, or change the already provided `cms` bundle, to preload multiple lazy libraries with `preloadLazyLibs`  or quickly load them with `injectLazyLibs`.

### `storeExtenders`

`storeExtenders` is a list of callables with signature `(middlewaresList) => middlewaresList`.
These callables receive the whole stack of middlewares used in Volto and they can add new middleware or tweak this list.

```

### asyncPropsExtenders

Per-route customizable `asyncConnect` action dispatcher. These enable
proper {term}`server-side rendering` of content that depends on additional async
props coming from backend calls. It is a list of route-like configuration
objects (they are matched using
[matchRoutes](https://github.com/remix-run/react-router/blob/ea44618e68f6a112e48404b2ea0da3e207daf4f0/packages/react-router-config/modules/matchRoutes.js)).
Instead of the `component` key you should provide an `extend`
method with signature `asyncItems => asyncItems`, so it receives a list of
asyncConnect "prop" objects and returns a similar list. You can add
new asyncConnected props as well as removing them, so you could, for
example, have something like this to exclude the breadcrumbs from being

> requested:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `asyncPropsExtenders`

`asyncPropsExtenders` is a per-route customizable `asyncConnect` action dispatcher.
These enable proper {term}`server-side rendering` of content that depends on additional async props coming from backend calls.
It is a list of route-like configuration objects, which are matched using
[`matchRoutes`](https://github.com/remix-run/react-router/blob/ea44618e68f6a112e48404b2ea0da3e207daf4f0/packages/react-router-config/modules/matchRoutes.js).

Instead of the `component` key, you should provide an `extend` method with signature `asyncItems => asyncItems`.
Thus, it receives a list of `asyncConnect` "prop" objects, and returns a similar list.
You can add new `asyncConnected` props, as well as remove them.
The following example demonstrates this, excluding the breadcrumbs from being requested.
```

```js
config.settings.asyncPropsExtenders = [
  ...config.settings.asyncPropsExtenders,
  {
    path: '/',
    extend: (dispatchActions) => dispatchActions.filter(asyncAction=> asyncAction.key !== 'breadcrumb')
  }
]
```

### externalRoutes

If another application is published under the same top domain as Volto, you could have a route like `/abc` which should be not rendered by Volto.
This can be achieved by a rule in the reverse proxy (Apache or nginx for example) but, when navigating client side, you may have references to that route so Volto is
handling that as an internal URL and fetching the content will break.

> You can disable that path in `config.settings.externalRoutes` so it will be handled as an external link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `externalRoutes`

If another application is published under the same top domain as Volto, `externalRoutes` lets you configure a route such as `/abc` which should be not rendered by Volto.

This could be achieved by a rule in the reverse proxy, such as Apache or nginx, but when navigating client side, you may have references to that route.
Volto handles that as an internal URL, and fetching the content will break.
You can disable that path in `config.settings.externalRoutes` so it will be handled as an external link, as shown in the following example.
```

```js
config.settings.externalRoutes = [
  {
    match: {
      path: '/news',
      exact: false,
      strict: false,
    },
    url(payload) {
      return payload.location.pathname;
    },
  },
];
```

> It can also be simplified as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The foregoing example can be simplified as shown.

```

```js
config.settings.externalRoutes = [
  { match: "/news" },
  { match: "/events" },
];
```

### contentMetadataTagsImageField

The OpenGraph image that will represent this content item, will be used in the metadata HEAD tag as og:image for SEO purposes. Defaults to image. See the OpenGraph Protocol for more details.

### hasWorkingCopySupport

```{versionremoved} Volto 18.8.0
This setting is unnecessary since Volto 18.8.0.
Working copy support is now based on whether the `plone.app.iterate` add-on is installed in the backend.
```

> For Plone sites using a Volto version prior to 18.8.0, this setting enables working copy support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Plone sites using a Volto version prior to 18.8.0, the `hasWorkingCopySupport` setting enables working copy support.
```

```{seealso}
See {doc}`workingcopy` for configuration.
```

### controlpanels

Register a component as control panel.

Example configuration in `config.js` of your project or add-on:

```js
config.settings.controlpanels = [
  ...config.settings.controlpanels,
  {
    '@id': '/manage-myaddon-subscriptions',
    group: 'Add-on Configuration',
    title: 'Breaking News Manage Subscriptions',
  },
];

config.addonRoutes = [
  ...config.addonRoutes,
  {
    path: '/controlpanel/manage-myaddon-subscriptions',
    component: ManageSubscriptions,
  },
];
```

The group can be one of the default groups 'General', 'Content', 'Security', 'Add-on Configuration', 'Users and Groups' or a custom group.

### filterControlPanelsSchema

> A schema factory for a control panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `filterControlPanelsSchema`

`filterControlPanelsSchema` is a schema factory for a control panel.
```

It is used internally, to tweak the schemas provided by the `@controlpanels` endpoint, making them fit for Volto.
It uses the `unwantedControlPanelsFields` setting.

### unwantedControlPanelsFields

> Control panels' fields that are not used in Volto.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `unwantedControlPanelsFields`

`unwantedControlPanelsFields` is the control panel fields that are not used in Volto.
```

### workflowMapping

It's an object that defines the mapping between workflow states/transitions and the color that should show in the change Workflow dropdown. This is the default:

```js
export const workflowMapping = {
  published: { value: 'published', color: '#007bc1' },
  publish: { value: 'publish', color: '#007bc1' },
  private: { value: 'private', color: '#ed4033' },
  pending: { value: 'pending', color: '#f6a808' },
  send_back: { value: 'private', color: '#ed4033' },
  retract: { value: 'private', color: '#ed4033' },
  reject: { value: 'private', color: '#ed4033' },
  submit: { value: 'review', color: '#f4e037' },
};
```

It's meant to be extended with your own workflows/transitions.
It is recommended to assign the same color to the transition as the destination state, so the user can have the visual hint to which state are they transitioning to.

### styleClassNameConverters

An object with functions used by the style wrapper helpers to convert style
data to actual class names. You can customize the generated classname by
registering fieldnames with names such as `<fieldname>:<converterName>`,
where the converter is registered here.

### styleClassNameExtenders

> An array containing functions that extends how the StyleWrapper builds a list of styles. These functions have the signature `({ block, content, data, classNames }) => classNames`. Here are some examples of useful ones, for simplicity, they are compacted in one extender:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's meant to be extended with your own workflows or transitions.
It's recommended to assign the same color to the transition as the destination state, so the user can have the visual hint to which state are they transitioning.

### `styleClassNameConverters`

`styleClassNameConverters` is an object with functions used by the style wrapper helpers to convert style data to actual class names.
You can customize the generated class name by registering field names with names, such as `<fieldname>:<converterName>`, where the converter is registered here.

### `styleClassNameExtenders`

`styleClassNameExtenders` is an array containing functions that extend how the `StyleWrapper` builds a list of styles.
These functions have the signature `({ block, content, data, classNames }) => classNames`.

The following examples show useful functions.
For simplicity, they're compacted into one extender.
```

      }

      // Inject a class depending if it's the last of block type
      if (data?.['@type'] !== nextBlock?.['@type']) {
        styles.push('is--last--of--block-type');
      }

      // Given a StyleWrapper defined `backgroundColor` style
      const previousColor =
        previousBlock?.styles?.backgroundColor ?? 'transparent';
      const currentColor = data?.styles?.backgroundColor ?? 'transparent';
      const nextColor = nextBlock?.styles?.backgroundColor ?? 'transparent';

      // Inject a class depending if the previous block has the same `backgroundColor`
      if (currentColor === previousColor) {
        styles.push('previous--has--same--backgroundColor');
      } else if (currentColor !== previousColor) {
        styles.push('previous--has--different--backgroundColor');
      }

      // Inject a class depending if the next block has the same `backgroundColor`
      if (currentColor === nextColor) {
        styles.push('next--has--same--backgroundColor');
      } else if (currentColor !== nextColor) {
        styles.push('next--has--different--backgroundColor');
      }

      return [...classNames, ...styles];
    },

>   ];

Reviewer: Dedent all the above 2 spaces.

The `querystring` object accepts a querystring object or a function that returns a querystring object.
The function receives the current `config` and the current evaluated `querystring` as parameters, so you can use it to pass dynamic values to the querystring.

```js
export default function applyConfig (config) {
  config.settings.apiExpanders = [
      ...config.settings.apiExpanders,
      {
        match: '',
        GET_CONTENT: ['mycustomexpander'],
      },
      {
        match: '/de',
        GET_CONTENT: ['myothercustomexpander'],
      },
      {
        match: '/de',
        GET_CONTENT: ['navigation'],
        querystring: (config, querystring) => ({
          'expand.navigation.depth': config.settings.navDepth,
        }),
      }
  ];

  return config;
}
```

This is used in case that you want to pass current (as in resultant, in place) config options to the querystring object.

### additionalToolbarComponents

For additional toolbar menus, the menu body component needs to be added to the on-demand loaded components.

```jsx
config.settings.additionalToolbarComponents = {
  bookmarksMenu: {
    component: BookmarksEditorComponent,
    wrapper: null,
  },
};
```

> The plug:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then add the plug, as shown.

```

```jsx
<Plug pluggable="main.toolbar.bottom" id="bookmarks-menu">
  {({ onClickHandler }) => {
    return (
      <button
        className="show-bookmarks"
        aria-label={intl.formatMessage(messages.label_showbookmarksmenu)}
        onClick={(e) => onClickHandler(e, 'bookmarksMenu')}
        tabIndex={0}
        id="toolbar-show-bookmarks"
      >
        <Icon
          name={bookSVG}
          size="30px"
          title={intl.formatMessage(messages.label_showbookmarksmenu)}
        />
      </button>
    );
  }}
</Plug>
```

### blockSettingsTabFieldsetsInitialStateOpen

A Boolean, `true` by default.

> The fieldsets in the blocks settings tab start by default as non-collapsed (opened), you can decide to have them collapsed (closed) by default setting this to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fieldsets in the blocks settings tab start as non-collapsed or opened by default.
To collapse or close them, set `blockSettingsTabFieldsetsInitialStateOpen` to `false`.
```

### excludeLinksAndReferencesMenuItem

A Boolean, `false` by default.
The content menu links to the {guilabel}`Links and references` view per default.

> Exclude this menu item by setting `excludeLinksAndReferencesMenuItem` to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `excludeLinksAndReferencesMenuItem`

`excludeLinksAndReferencesMenuItem` is a boolean, and is `false` by default.
The content menu links to the {guilabel}`Links and references` view per default.
Exclude this menu item by setting `excludeLinksAndReferencesMenuItem` to `true`.
```

```{seealso}
{doc}`../user-manual/links-to-item`
```

### okRoute

> Volto provides an `/ok` URL where it responds with a `text/plain ok` response, with an `HTTP 200` status code, to signal third party health check services that the Volto process is running correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `okRoute`

The `okRoute` setting in Volto provides an `/ok` URL where it responds with a `text/plain ok` response, with an `HTTP 200` status code, to signal third party health check services that the Volto process is running correctly.
```

Using this setting, one can modify such an URL and configure it to respond with another URL.

The provided default URL matches the existing Plone Classic UI URL.

```jsx
  config.settings.okRoute = '/site-is-ok'

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Using the `okRoute` setting, you can modify this URL and configure it to respond with another URL.

The provided default URL matches the existing Plone Classic UI URL.

```jsx
config.settings.okRoute = '/site-is-ok'
```
````

### siteTitleFormat

Volto lets you modify how the site title is built.
By default the site title only includes the title of the current page.

By modifying this configuration setting, you can decide whether to use the title of the navigation root (either the site root or the language root folder) as the second part of the title.

> You can also decide the separator character between the current page title and the site title.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `siteTitleFormat`

The `siteTitleFormat` setting in Volto lets you modify how the site title is built.
By default, the site title only includes the title of the current page.

By modifying the `siteTitleFormat` configuration setting, you can decide whether to use the title of the navigation root, either the site root or the language root folder, as the second part of the title.

You can also choose the separator character between the current page title and the site title, as shown in the following example.
```

```jsx
    siteTitleFormat: {
      includeSiteTitle: true,
      titleAndSiteTitleSeparator: '-',

>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
siteTitleFormat: {
  includeSiteTitle: true,
  titleAndSiteTitleSeparator: '-',
}
```

```

> ### querystringSearchGet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `querystringSearchGet`
```

Volto uses `HTTP POST` requests to query the `@querystring-search` endpoint.
This can create a lot of traffic between Volto and the backend, and can also create a lot of cache misses.

By modifying this configuration setting and setting it to `true`, the endpoint queries will be executed as `HTTP GET` requests.
Thus any proxy cache in between Volto and the backend may cache those queries, improving your site performance.

Please be aware that this could break some other functionality in your site, or some of your queries may break, when they contain more than 2000 characters.
[See an explanation of character limits in URLs](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/417142/what-is-the-maximum-length-of-a-url-in-different-browsers/417184#417184).
Please test this setting properly before enabling in a production site.

### cssLayers

To use CSS layers when styling Volto, you can define and apply them at the very top level of the page, where they appear in the `<head>` tag.

> By using this configuration, you can pass the layer list definition as an array:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use CSS layers when styling Volto, you can define and apply them at the very top level of the page, where they appear in the `<head>` tag.
By using the `cssLayers` configuration, you can pass the layer list definition as an array, as shown in the following example
```

```js
config.settings.cssLayers = ['reset', 'plone-components', 'layout', 'addons', 'theme'];
```

### showRelatedItems

If `true`, the `RelatedItems` component will show items from the `relatedItems` field.

> Default: `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `showRelatedItems`

If `showRelatedItems` is `true`, then the `RelatedItems` component will show items from the `relatedItems` field.
Default: `true`.
```

```{versionadded} Volto 18.5.0
```

```{versionchanged} Volto 19
In Volto 19, the default was changed to `true`.
```

### showTags

If true, the `Tags` component will show tags from the `subjects` field. Default: true.

### isMultilingual

If `true`, features for translating content to multiple languages are available.
Default: `false`.

````{versionremoved} Volto 19
This setting was removed in Volto 19.
Instead, Volto checks whether the backend has multilingual features enabled.

```{seealso}
See {ref}`multilingual configuration in Volto <multilingual-volto-configuration-label>`.
```
````

### defaultLanguage

> Sets the default language of the site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `defaultLanguage`

`defaultLanguage` sets the default language of the site.
```

````{versionremoved} Volto 19
This setting was removed in Volto 19.
Instead, the default language is loaded from the backend.

```{seealso}
See {ref}`multilingual configuration in Volto <multilingual-volto-configuration-label>`.
```
````

### supportedLanguages

> A list of locales which are included in the bundled code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `supportedLanguages`

`supportedLanguages` is a list of locales which are included in the bundled code.
```

  folder_listing: 'Folder listing',
  newsitem_view: 'News item view',
  link_redirect_view: 'Link redirect view',
  file_view: 'File view',
  image_view: 'Image view',
  event_view: 'Event view',
  view: 'Default view',
};
```

You can customize this object to add or modify the existing entries.
They are i18n aware, so you can add the corresponding i18n message in your project's `src/config.js` or your add-on's `src/index.js`:

```js
import { defineMessages } from 'react-intl';
defineMessages({
  album_view: {
    id: 'Album view',
    defaultMessage: 'Album view',
  },
})
```

## Server-specific serverConfig

Settings that are relevant to the Express-powered Volto {term}`SSR` server are stored
in the `config.settings.serverConfig` object.

### expressMiddleware

A list of ExpressJs middleware that can extend the built-in functionality of
Volto's server. See the [Express](../development/express) section for more details.

### criticalCssPath

A path relative to the project root that points to an optional CSS file. If
this file exists it is loaded and its content is embedded inline into the
generated HTML. By default this path is `public/critical.css`. See the

> {doc}`../deploying/performance` section for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`expressMiddleware` is a list of Express.js middleware that can extend the built-in functionality of Volto's server.
See the [Express](../development/express) section for more details.

### `criticalCssPath`

`criticalCssPath` is  path relative to the project root that points to an optional CSS file.
If this file exists, it is loaded, and its content is embedded inline into the
generated HTML.
By default this path is `public/critical.css`.
See the {doc}`../deploying/performance` section for more details.
```
